Let me ask you all honestly.
Have you taken a look at the blog visitor graph lately?  I saw it, too.  But this is
n't a stock chart or anything, so why is it
dropped like this?  really.
But...  There is something interesting.  I tried
writing blogs with similar keywords at the same time, but
one side's visitors were cut in half, while the
other's actually went up.  It's the same
Naver, the same blog, and from the same period, so
what on earth is different?  Ah,
isn't that the difference in blog rankings?
It's a blog that used to be doing well.  no.  There were cases where
blogs with high rankings dropped, while blogs with low rankings
actually went up
.  On the contrary, there were cases where
exposure was good after the blog was first created
.  Today, I will
personally analyze this difference and show you.
And if you watch until the end of the video,
I will recommend three things you should change on your blog right now
.  Before we get to the main point, let's first go over
what is currently happening at Naver
.  To summarize in one line, it is
exactly this.  It means that Naver has
placed AI on top of blogs
.  What I mean is,
try searching for something on Naver right now.  For example, if you
searched for "Gangnam dermatology clinic recommendations,"
in the past, a whole bunch of blog posts would
pop up right away.  But now.  The
rice cake appears at the very top.  What is it?
AI Briefing.  Naver AI
reads various blog posts, automatically summarizes them, and
displays the result.  From the user's perspective, they just think, "
Oh, everything is here," and move on
.  Shall I click on the blog?  yes.   I definitely
won't do it anymore.  So, the
blog post we worked so hard to write ends up being summarized by AI
.  It’s like the feeling of having studied
really hard for an exam, only for the
friend sitting next to you to sneak their answer sheet in and submit it first.  If
you look at the old structure...   When I
searched, the blog came up as the number one result right away
.  It was a structure where you had no choice but to click
.  But right now, the AI ​​Briefing is at the
very top, followed by ads, then
places, and you have to scroll down quite a bit to find the
blog.
From the blog's perspective, it was like doing business on the first floor and then suddenly being
kicked out to the second basement floor.  But
there is some interesting data here.
I analyzed the citation sources of the AI ​​briefing at a place called SEO News.  We
investigated a total of 272 cases.
We can expect up to this point that 50.7% and 7% were cited from the top 12 posts
.  However, the remaining
49.3% and 3% were
taken from posts outside the top 12.
What I mean is...  The point is that even if the search ranking is low,
or even if it is on page 2 or 3, if the
AI ​​says, "Wow, this is really
good," it will immediately put it on the briefing
.  To put it the other way.   It means that even if you are in first
place, if the AI ​​says, "Oh, this is really
bad," it won't take it
.  The rules of the game have changed.
The more interesting part is this.  The way the
AI ​​selects it has changed depending on the type of search term
.  Hey,
what is it, [Name]?  As for the same informational questions.  The
overlap rate with top-ranked posts is only 28.6%
.  It means that the AI ​​ignores rankings and
chooses on its own.  However,
comparative keywords comparing A and B, or
commercial keywords like 'so-and-so price,'
are 100% taken by the top-ranking posts.  Why do you need to know this?  Now,
self-employed business owners, what kind of posts do you often write on your blogs
?  About Our Shop
What is good about this procedure? What is good about this service
? How do I use this product
?  You know, it's informative like this.   The same goes for
e-commerce.  But the point is that the
AI ​​chooses arbitrarily in that very area
.  It
means [music] that you cannot be complacent just because the ranking is high.
This is exactly why I have been telling you for the past year, endlessly, not to obsess over top search rankings.  So, here
is the key point.
What kind of articles will actually be selected for the AI ​​briefing?  I will
search for it myself and compare them
.  Okay, then I’m going to
actually search on Naver right now.
How to make a Naver reservation.   Okay
, I will try hitting it like this.   Do
you see it?  You can see the AI ​​briefing appearing right above me, right
?  And if you look at the source attribution here,
blog posts are cited
.  I'll go in.
Now, take a look. Please check when this text was written
.  This
is a post from 2020.  Shall we take a look at another one?
Now, this article is from 2016.
Uh, it's a post from quite a long time ago.  This
is not the latest post.  Even so, the AI
briefing selected this article.  Why did they
choose it?  If
you look at the picture and the structure of the text, the main point comes out right from the start
.  Now, you
can create one blog per ID
.  I don't know what I need to do while doing this and that
.
Now, anyway, if we look at the text brought by this AI briefing
...  The point is that the core idea comes right from the beginning of the text
.  And the
steps are appearing well under the second subheading like this
.  Shall we take a look at this
?  yes.  In between.  Oh,
the images are well done, too.  It
cannot read photo images, but since images are also based on actual experience—
hey, even up to the source of photos—
starting from how to create a cafe, anyway, if you
look at this, regarding the subheadings, in the case of the text, I have
n't set them, but
anyway, it is structured like stages 1, 2, and 3 that are
perfect for AI to read
.
And the third point is that there are details like this that only someone who has actually tried it can
write about
.  You know those things that aren't in the official manual but you found out by actually trying them out?
Well, I tried inserting the image in a hurry like this,
yes.  So,
there are details that only someone who has actually done it themselves can write.   It’s something I found out by actually trying it out, even though it’s
not in the official manual
.
This is the decisive reason why AI selected this article
But...  Let me point out one important thing here
.  Earlier, when I
searched for how to make a Naver reservation phone, an AI briefing
came up, you know.  Then, how about searching for "Sinsa Station dermatology
recommendations"?
Recommended dermatology clinic near Chinsayeok.
Uh, the AI ​​briefing isn't coming out, right?  This
is the key point.  AI briefings
don't appear in every search term.  This was
officially revealed by Naver.  Currently, content
is concentrated on specific types such as house information, neologisms, movie endings, recipes, and travel destination information.
But...  We shouldn't let our guard down here
.  Naver said that they
plan to gradually expand its application.  Currently, it is
applied to about 20% of searches, and this
rate is continuously increasing.
So, just because
AI Briefing isn't showing up for keywords like "Sinsa Station dermatology recommendations" doesn't mean I don't
care.   I'm saying you should
n't do this.  In a few months, "
AI Briefing" could suddenly start appearing in your industry keywords as well
.  If you rush to change it then, it will be too
late.  You need to prepare in advance now
.  Okay, then, let's compare the
text cited in the AI ​​briefing earlier with a
text that wasn't cited, even though it shares the same keywords
.  We tried making a Naver Form, but this
post wasn't selected even though it has the same keywords
.  Shall we zoom in a bit?
Okay, the story starts like this.
hello.  Today, I will
show you how to create Naver Forms.
Many people mainly use Google Forms, but I find it
much more convenient and better to create them using Naver
.  Uh,
I've read three lines now, but it doesn't say what I need to do.
From the AI's perspective, it's wondering what it's supposed to take from this text
.  And if you
scroll down a bit, it's
full of photos, but unlike before, it doesn't
seem like there is any experience embedded in them, and the
descriptions for these photos are a bit
lacking.  Rather, if you look at things like this...   You know, you just
crammed text into GPT and made it, so you can
write it roughly.  Also,
AI cannot read photos.  It is
true that text is necessary, but I noticed a pattern when analyzing multiple keywords: there is a difference between text that
incorporates user experience and text that looks
like it was generated by AI.  There are
four things that the texts cited in the AI ​​briefing have in common
.  The answer is in the first two or three lines
.  The core point without each other.   I will
summarize a few points regarding [something].  It's like this.  The
second one is structured with subheadings.
When AI analyzes a text, if
there are subheadings, it can immediately understand, "Ah, this section is about this kind of content
."
It works on the same principle as having a [music] table of contents in a book.  And the third
includes specific experiences and figures.   I'm not talking about "it
was delicious," but things
like 32,000 won for two people, a 10-minute wait on weekdays, and 40 minutes on weekends.  Information that anyone can see only
someone who has actually been there could write
. The fourth is a blog that has been written consistently on a consistent theme
.  It means that AI recognizes a
blog that consistently writes about 100 restaurants
as a restaurant expert, rather than blogs that write about restaurants today, stocks tomorrow, and meat the day after
.  Naver calls this C-Rank, which,
simply put,
is a score indicating that this blog is an expert in its field.  Conversely,
there are also commonalities among blogs that get buried.   The
first emotional introduction is too long.
hello.  The weather is nice today, so if
I write these three lines, the AI ​​will already move on to something else
.  Gameplay does
n't work on AI.  [Music] This one is really
cool-headed.  I
force myself to repeat only the second keyword.  Gangnam Dermatology Gangnam
Dermatology Recommendation.  Good dermatology clinics in Gangnam—that used to be a thing
.  But now,
Naver actually penalizes posts like this
.  Keyword spamming
already ended in 2024.   If
you look at the group chats,
there are still people spamming keywords, and that is a big problem
.  There are only a lot of photos on the third page, and
no text.  As I mentioned earlier,
AI cannot read photos.  If you give
20 photos and three lines of text, the AI
just draws a three-line version
. It is obvious that the fourth AI was used
.  You know that distinctive way of speaking when you tell GPT to write a Blue Extreme
.  You can do this and that.   Let's
examine this from various perspectives.   The
noteworthy point is this kind of problem.
Naver is detecting all of this.
AI recognizes AI.  Just like a criminal
recognizing another criminal.  Then,
let's compare this with actual text.
This is the introduction to the text where the left side is buried.  hello.
Today, I’d like to recommend a nail salon in Hongdae
.  With the weather getting warmer these days and
summer approaching, I imagine
many of you are becoming interested in tomorrow.   This
is the introduction to the text that appears on the right.
[Music]
After personally visiting 12 beauty shops in Hongdae, I have compiled a list of the top 5 based on price, design, and durability
.  As of June 26,
everything was purchased with my own money.  It feels completely different, doesn't it?
When the AI ​​looks at the text on the right, it can immediately determine [Music] that it should
take the top 5 list from this text
.  The AI ​​just skips the text on the left
because the main point isn't apparent even after reading three lines
.
Now it's the real thing.
I have done a sufficient analysis.  I’m going to give you three things you can do right away after watching this video today
.  Change the first three lines of the first text
.  Open the
most recent post you wrote on your blog right now
.  Take a look to see if the main point of this article is in the first three lines
.  If it starts with "Hello," you need to
change it.  The formula is simple.
Organize the topic with numbers.  Direct
experience, paid for with my own money, and then years of
experience like this.  Let me give you an example.   If you are a
cafe owner, here are three Instagram management tips for generating
10 million won in monthly sales, shared by a cafe owner in Yeonnam-dong who is in their second year of business
.  If you are a dermatologist, I have
summarized three things you absolutely need to know about the procedure based on my experience of performing over 5,000 laser toning treatments.   It would
n't take 3 minutes to change it like this, right?
However, the point is that these three people can
decide whether or not you are selected for the AI ​​briefing
.  Design the second treatment
time.
What is the treatment time?  It's about how long people stay on my blog
.  This is one of the
most important indicators that the Naver algorithm looks at in 2026
.  But many people
cram in tons of photos to extend their stay.  If there are a lot of photos, people scroll for a
long time, so the time spent there will probably go up.
no.  If I just list the photos one after another,
people will quickly flip through them and leave.   Just like
scrolling through an Instagram feed.  That's
not staying, it's scrolling.  The
structure that actually extends treatment time is
as follows.  Divide the sections using subheadings
.  If the text is 1,500 characters or more, there must
be at least three to four subheadings.  It makes the person stop and read the child part, thinking, "That's what
I'm curious about right now
."  You insert a key summary box in the middle
.
You know the quoting feature on Naver Blog.  If you
put the key summary like this, your
eyes will stop right there while scrolling.  Please include
links to my other posts at the end of that article
. If you post two or three related articles with the message, "If this was helpful, please
check this out too," that would be great
.  As I
move from one post to another in Hangul, I keep wandering around within my blog
.  Naver
really likes this.
People keep staying on this blog.  So, you
judge it to be a good blog.
You know why Netflix is ​​doing so well, right?  Meanwhile, the
next episode will autoplay as soon as it ends
.  You end up watching it again and again.   It
is the same raw material.  And here's a really great
tip.  Please do not use color and
correct the old text.  Many of you are wondering if you should write more, but
in the current situation,
properly revising the three existing posts might be
more effective than using ten new colors.  Because.
When a post is edited, Naver
crawls it again, noticing that the child's post has been updated.
It means reading it one more time.  So, if it is
structured as I mentioned earlier, it means you can be
newly selected for the AI ​​briefing
.  Even Naver's official guide
said this.  Please revise your previously written posts to
reflect changes in information or the emergence of new trends
.  Naver told us to do it ourselves
.  Then, which text should be edited
?  I will let you know the priorities.   The
top-ranked post used to have many visitors but has
since dropped in popularity. Since it is a verified post, there is a
high possibility of its revival if edited.   For
this ranking, it is more
efficient to revive posts that are still alive and breathing, rather than completely dead ones, and those that are still seeing some traffic.  The third ranking is a
post that perfectly matches the core theme of my blog, and it is directly linked
to the C-Rank blog expertise score I mentioned earlier
.  The checklist is simple when making corrections
.  You just need to check if the main point is in the first three lines, if
there are subheadings, if
there are text descriptions for the photos,
and update outdated information such as dates or prices
.  Lastly, this is
not my opinion, but something Naver announced directly
.  In June, Naver Search’s official
blog posted a guide on content that is chosen by users in the AI ​​era
.  I'll give you just the key points.
One is knowledge gained through direct experience.  What AI cannot
create is ultimately your own unique
experience.  Two, a consistent theme.  You must
consistently write in one field to be recognized as a specialized channel
.  three.  Honest sincerity.   If it is
an advertisement, write "advertisement," and if it is a purchase made with your own money,
write "purchased with my own money."  If you hide it, you will
actually lose points.  My easy-to-read
structure.  Title, subtitle, paragraph break.
This all
aligns with the AI ​​briefing selection criteria I mentioned earlier.   The
fifth is maintaining up-to-date status.  It means to
edit and update the old post.  This is also something
Naver said directly.   In
the end.  It exactly matches the three official Naver guidelines I mentioned today
.  I mean that I didn't come up with that phrase all by myself
.  It is true that Naver is changing
.  The AI ​​briefing was
posted on the blog, and it doesn't work the old way
.  But...  Blogs
aren't dead.  You saw it earlier.
Most of the sources cited by the AI ​​briefing are
still blogs.  The fact that Naver invested 1 trillion won and even
created Naver Mate shows that they
actually intend to grow blogs even further
.  However, the point is that you have to write it the way Naver wants
.  Those are the
three methods I mentioned today.
Change the first three weeks, design the dwell time, and
fix the old text.
In the next video, I am conducting an experiment to see how visitor numbers change after
actually modifying existing posts using the method I explained today.
I wanted to include this in the video, but so far, I have
n't seen any meaningful experimental results.   I've been
continuously experimenting with this as well, as I
mentioned.  Are you saying I would do
anything to increase my client's sales
?  So, I'm
doing a lot of really silly experiments. If
you're curious about the results, please subscribe, like, and
turn on notifications.  [Music]
What should we do about our industry?
If you need individual consultation, I have
left a KakaoTalk Open Chat link in the description, so please feel
free to join.
And recently, there's CPC advertising, you know
.  There is a significant influx of traffic to Carrots or Meta
.  Recently,
there are people who are worried about the influx of traffic.
I also offer personal consulting, so please feel
free to join my KakaoTalk open chat room and leave an inquiry, and I will get back to you
.  Then, I will
see you in the next video.  This has been
Marketing Leader Jin Representative.  Marketing
Master CEO Jin will always prove himself solely through increased sales
.  thank you
Before spending money on advertising, you have to
read the customer's [music] heart first.
Top Ranking, then [Music]
Strategy,
the one difference that changes sales [Music] Marketing, CEO Dae Jang-jin
[Song] Marketing that speaks through results.
See you in the next video [Music][Song].
Subscribe and grow together.